---
section: self-hosted/latest
title: Install Gitpod Self-Hosted with Replicated
---

<script context="module">
  export const prerender = true;
</script>

# Install Gitpod Self-Hosted with Replicated

> Installing with Replicated is still in Beta. Please feel free to try it out, and [give feedback/bug reports](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/issues/new/choose).

[Replicated](https://www.replicated.com) allows us to package and securely distribute Gitpod to diverse customer environments, without us having to build things specific things for
a particular cluster environment. For a user, This means you get a Console to manage your Gitpod installation without you having to understand Gitpod packaging in depth, as
it's all abstracted away.

Users also get automated releases, to which they can upgrade to, roll-back from, etc. This means that you can focus less on managing Gitpod, and more on
using it.

## Requirements

- Kubernetes cluster satisfying all the [requirements of running Gitpod](./../requirements)
- [Kots CLI installed, and configured to work as a kubectl plugin](https://docs.replicated.com/reference/kots-cli-getting-started).

## Installing Kots Admin Console

`kots` is the user-facing administration stack of replicated which you would use to install and manage Gitpod. It includes a CLI binary, along
with a administration UI console.

To kick things off, Run

```
kubectl kots install gitpod-pov/beta
```

Once you do this, it will ask you the namespace (in which Gitpod should be installed), along with a password for the admin console. You should be able to
check the `admin-console` where you'll be asked for a Gitpod License. You can also open the Admin UI by running `kubectl kots admin-console -n <namespace>`
anytime.

### Gitpod Licensing

Currently, Any Gitpod install with `kots` requires a License from us to make it work even for the free tier. We are working to make this automated but for now,
Reach out to us for a License, and we will send you one right away.

Once you have a License up, You can then use the same Admin UI to move between tiers, add more users for your Gitpod instance by contacting us. This will all be
automated and you don't have to do much.

## Installing Gitpod

Once you are in the `kots` Admin Console, The steps should be pretty straight forward in the UI. Validation checks are automatically run on the
cluster and errors are reported (if any).

You can use the `Config` page to configure the Gitpod install based on your requirements. This will include configuration options from

### SSL Certificates

Security plays a important aspect in how we develop Gitpod. This means, We use SSL certificate validation both for internal and external communication.
For this, [cert-manager]() is installed along with Gitpod and is used to enable the following things:

#### Internal

Communication between most internal components uses TLS, by using the SSL certificates created and attached to the pods by `cert-manager`.
This means that without the `certificates` generated by `cert-manager`, Components in Gitpod would fail to startup.

Once `cert-manager` is installed, We create custom resources asking it to create relevant private Certificate Authority, and then asking it to issue
relevant certificates that we use in Gitpod components.

#### External

For end to end TLS, You would also need to get a public SSL certificate by validating with Let's Encrypt. This is required to have secure and
verified communication with the User and your cluster Ingress.

`cert-manager` also integrates with [Let's Encrypt]() to make this easier, without having to setup all this on your own individually.
If you are using a Kubernetes distribution of a cloud-provider, You can select the relevant DNS validation option here and `cert-manager`
[will take care of the validation by using `external-dns` and also updating your DNS records](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/dns01/).
For this to work, You would have to give relevant config data based on your cloud provider.

If you want to do this on your own, Opt into the `Use a self-signed TLS certificate` option and `cert-manager` will only work on setting
up the Internal certificates.

### Advanced Mode

If there are any [Config options from the `installer`]() that are **not part** of the UI Config options, You can use this mode to have a configuration patch
that is overridden on top of the configuration specified in the UI. As this option allows any configuration options, Please make sure
to use it only when you know what you are doing.

If you have suggestions that we could include in the admin console i.e more validations, config options, etc. Feel free to raise an
issue.

## Accessing Gitpod

Once you have the Installation up and running, and the `admin-console` shows a green status. You can access your Gitpod installation on the configured domain,
and start using it.🎉
